Now, when you look at most to-do list apps out there, it's very rare that you'll come across a to-do list
that only has a single list. But, unfortunately, that's currently all that we've got. Most to-do list apps
will have categories.
So, for example, cleaning, bills, miscellaneous, grocery, and you'll be able to tap on them to view those
lists,
and this allows us to classify and categorize so that we can organize our to-do list items in a more
logical way.
So that's also a good feature for us to add to our Todoey app. And in order to implement it,
we'll get to learn all about relationships and how we set them up using Core Data.
So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to make some UI changes. At the moment,
we've got a single table view controller that is embedded inside a navigation controller.
Now, in order for us to have a category screen, then we need to drag on another table view controller.
So I'm going to place that between the navigation controller and our to-do list items table view controller.
Then I'm going to delete this link between the navigation controller and the to-do List controller because
this link specifies which is the
root view controller, i.e., if you have a navigation stack like a stack of cards, what is the controller that's
at the bottom of the stack? And when you say something like pop to root view controller, then that's equivalent to
the first screen that's embedded in the navigation stack.
So let's go ahead and click on this link and delete it. And then I'm going to replace this category view
controller into a navigation controller and our to-do list view controller, and then I'm going to click
on the navigation controller,
so I get this little yellow button here, I'm going to control drag it to point it towards our brand-new
table view controller. And instead of using show or creating a segue, instead, I'm going to create a relationship
segue and specify that this is now the root view controller because we first have to see the category
table view,
and only then can we select one of the categories to take us to all the items that are classified under
that category.
So that means we also need to set up a segue between our category and our to-do list items by control
dragging.
And in this case, we're going to go for a show segue.
And if you remember every single time we set up a segue, we also have to specify an identifier.
So we'll just call this goToItems. And we currently now have this free-floating table view because
it doesn't have a view controller class that's associated with it.
So let's go ahead and create a new one. And instead of creating a new Swift File, we want a new Cocoa
Touch Class.
So hit next.
And this is going to be a subclass of UITableViewController because we want all of that freebie
code that comes with it.
And then we're going to call this class the CategoryViewController, make sure language is selected to the Swift,
and hit Next.
And then we're going to save it inside the Controllers folder or group and making sure that it targets
our Todoey app, and then we're going to get Create, and we now have a CategoryViewController. So, I'm actually
going to drag that on top so that it makes more sense because we first go to Category, then we go to the
to-do list for each category.
So, now if we go back to our Main.storyboard, we can specify the Swift file that is going to be responsible
for managing this particular view.
So if you don't do this step and you head over to the assistant editor, when you select the to-do list
item view control, you see the under automatic,
we've got TodoListViewController.swift.
But when you select this new table you control that currently is not associated with any Swift class,
then you can see that under Automatic, you only get a UITableViewcontroller file, and this is also not
a Swift file.
This is actually an Objective-C header file.
So that's not what we want because we can't link up our outlets and we can't do anything,
so we have to specify the identity of this
view controller. And inside the custom class, we're going to say
CategoryViewController and hit enter.
So, now automatically, our assistant editor has updated to the corresponding class with our view controller.
Before we leave the Main.storyboard is we want to give this prototype cell a identifier. So select the
prototype cell, either on the canvas or select in the document outline,
but we're going to call it CategoryCell, and hit enter.
So, now that we've got our view and our class linked up, we can now create a add button or Bar Button Item
rather,
and we can drag it to the top right corner of this new
view controller.
And, again, this is going to be a system item of Add and we're going to change the tint to white.
This is going to allow us to add new categories to this table view so that we can organize our to-do list.
And once you've done that, we're going to control drag over to our CategoryViewController.swift file
and we're going to create a new IBAction, and this IBAction is going to be called add ButtonPressed
and it's going to be of type UIBarButtonItem, and hit enter.
And the last thing I'm going to do here is select the navigation item here and I'm going to give it
a title called Todoey, and then I'm going to change the title here to Items, and that is all we need to
do
inside the Main.storyboard.
So let's head over to the CategoryViewController. And the first thing I want to do is when you set up
a new Cocoa Touch Class, that subclasses UITableView, you get a whole bunch of free code, but you also
get a lot of comments.
And you know we're now pro enough with table views to not need all of this help and guidance.
So I'm going to delete all of this code up until viewDidLoad, and then I'm also going to delete all
the comments inside viewDidLoad. That cleans up.
view controller a little bit, and allows us to work on it without all of this distraction.
So, now that we've set up our view and our controller, we're going to go and figure out what we're going
to do with our data model.
So up till now, we've been editing our entities and attributes under this table view format, but you can also
switch to the graph view and this presents each entity and all of the attributes as a little table.
And for those guys who've been working with databases, then this might seem quite familiar to you.
So it's under this format that we're going to add a new entity, and this new entity is going to be called
Category.
And once you hit enter, then you'll see this new table show up
that's called Category which has no attributes and no relationship.
If you select the Category entity and click Add Attribute, then you're going to get a new attribute.
And we can click on it to modify its properties inside the Data Model Inspectah in the right-hand pane
here.
Now, for some reason I have no idea why the icon for it is like a little welding mask, but some designer
somewhere felt that this was a good idea to represent a data model. But, hey, let's not argue with Apple
designers, right?
Okay, so we're going to change the attribute name to be called name.
And this is going to refer to the name of each category that we're going to add, and we're going to make
the name nonoptional.
So it has to have a value for it to go into our data model. And you'll see this little error here and it won't
go away until you change the attribute type from Undefined.
It cannot be undefined.
It must be specified. And our name for the category is, of course, going to be a string.
And once you do that, then Xcode is all happy with you, and all the errors go away.
Now, in addition to having a single attribute for the category, we're also now going to set up a relationship
between our category and our item entities.
And to do that, all you need to do is control drag from Category to Item, and now you have a relationship.
Now, it's not very useful having a relationship called new Relationship.
So we need to rename that.
So click on it and that will allow us to edit it in the Data Model Inspector. We're going to change the
name to something that makes sense.
So each category can be associated with many items, right?
If you have a category called shopping list, then you might have 10 item objects that refer to all the
things you need to buy.
So we can call this relationship Items because that's essentially what it's referring to.
And we should change the type from To One to To Many because each category can have many items associated
with it.
Now, the inverse relationship refers to what you call the Category that the Item is associated with, and
that should probably be called the parentCategory, and each item can only have one parentCategory.
So this type should remain as To One. It will be really confusing if each of your items have two categories,
say, you know, your "buy milk" belongs in shopping list, as well as another category. That doesn't make
any sense, logically.
So we've now created a new entity called Category and we've also started creating our graph which specifies
how categories relate to Items. And this might be a good time to remind yourself of when we first started
talking about databases in this module, when we are talking about our bakery having a product's table,
a buyer's table, and an order's table. And in order to manage all of the complex data, we need to set up
these relationships.
So, now when we create a new Category, we can link it with many Item and as managed objects. And every
single item object, we can look up its parent category.
So this now gives us access to more complex things that we can do with our data including setting up
this new view controller and having a whole bunch of categories that each have their individual to-do lists.
Now, all we need to do is head back to our CategoryViewController and we need to set up some code to
use our data model.
So in order to do that, we'll need to import Core Data and we'll also need to have some TableView
DataSource methods, as well as TableView Delegate Methods, and then we'll need some Data Manipulation Methods.
So I think you're probably getting the hint.
I'm not going to do this for you.
I want you, as a challenge, to think back to what we did inside our TodoList View Controller, how we
set up an array of items, how we tapped into the context that we're going to use, and then how we set
up our tableView to load our data from the context for all of those items. And then we used our
IBAction addButtonPressed to add new items into our tableView.
And then we used the saveItems function to persist the items inside our container, and then we loaded
those items from our persistent container using our context.
Now, I want you to complete this challenge and be able to set up our CategoryViewController in a similar
way to what we did with items to use our Core Data data model and to be able to add new categories and
to be able to show those categories inside our table.
So all you need to do is set up the data source so that we can display all the categories that are inside
our persistent container.
Set up the Data Manipulation Methods, namely, save data and load data so that we can use CRUD.
And finally, to set up the addButtonPressed IBAction in order to Add New Categories using our category
entity. And the part that I want you to leave for now is the TableViewDelegate methods
So that refers to what should happen when we click on one of the cells inside the category table.
So I know that these challenges are getting more and more challenging.
But if you've come this far and you followed along with everything that we've been talking about with
Core Data, this is a good time to really test to see if you understood the concepts and use what you learned
to set up your very own table view controller that has a persistent data store using Core Data.
And if you have completed the challenge successfully, then you should end up with a blank table view
with the title Todoey, and you should be able to click on the Add button to add new categories to your
table view,
and when you double click on the home button and terminate your app.
Now, I really, really recommend you to give it a go yourself. And it might require quite a bit of struggling,
but struggle is good.
And once you struggle through it and get it to work by yourself, then you'll feel this immense sense
of achievement.
But if you do get stuck and you do have any issues, then you can always head over to the next lesson
where I will walk you through how we can do this.
So pause the video and give it a go now.
I'll see you on the other side.